Add monthly update for 11/2021 (#2721)
pipe-cd/pipe: docs/content/en/blog/news/november-2021-update.md

  source:
    git: git@github.com:username/lambda-function-code.git
    ref: v1.0.0
    path: hello-world
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab lang="yaml" header="Using Zip of source code stored in S3" >}}
# Deploy Lambda function by a Zip packing source code stored in S3.
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: LambdaFunction
spec:
  name: SimpleFunction
  s3Bucket: pipecd-sample-lambda
  s3Key: pipecd-sample-src
  s3ObjectVersion: 1pTK9_v0Kd7I8Sk4n6abzCL
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab lang="yaml" header="Using container image" >}}
# Deploy Lambda function by using a container image.
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: LambdaFunction
spec:
  name: SimpleFunction
  image: ecr.ap-northeast-1.amazonaws.com/lambda-test:v0.0.1
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabpane >}}

Check out its [documentation](/docs/user-guide/configuring-deployment/lambda) for more details.

##### Automated Deployment Analysis (ADA)

ADA is a good way to automate the process of evaluating the impact of a deployment during its lifetime to help building a robust release process. Any application can be configured to analyze its deployments based on its metrics data, log messages, or results from directly emitting requests to the application.

> Until now, PipeCD has been providing a way to allow the developer to configure a list `query` and `threshold` to analyze metrics data of a running deployment. Any query that returns a result exceeding the given threshold will cause the deployment to be failed, and a rollback stage will be executed if needed. Although this way is relatively straightforward, there is a challenge you can see here; it isn't easy to find an appropriate threshold value to use. And software is constantly changing time over time that making those values could be changed dynamically. Therefore, some new analysis strategies `PREVIOUS`, `CANARY_BASELINE`, `CANARY_PRIMARY` have been introduced since `v0.20.0`. They allow analyzing without requiring any threshold values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Until now, PipeCD has been providing a way to allow the developer to configure a list of `query` and `threshold` to analyze metrics data of a running deployment. Any query that returns a result exceeding the given threshold will cause the deployment to be failed, and a rollback stage will be executed if needed. Although this way is relatively straightforward, there is a challenge you can see here; it isn't easy to find an appropriate threshold value to use since software is constantly changing time over time that making those values could be changed dynamically. Therefore, some new analysis strategies `PREVIOUS`, `CANARY_BASELINE`, `CANARY_PRIMARY` have been introduced since `v0.20.0`. They allow analyzing without requiring any threshold values.
```
nits

Sum up, you can choose one of the following four strategies which fits your use case:

- `PREVIOUS`: A method to compare the time series of metrics data between the running and the last successful deployment
- `CANARY_BASELINE`: A method to compare the time series of metrics data between the Canary and Baseline variants
- `CANARY_PRIMARY`: A method to compare the time series of metrics data between the Canary and Primary variants
- `THRESHOLD`: A method to check the given queries againts the given thresholds

{{< tabpane >}}
{{< tab lang="yaml" header="Using PREVIOUS strategy" >}}
# ADA by comparing between metrics data of current and previous deployment.
- name: ANALYSIS
  with:
    duration: 30m
    metrics:
    - strategy: PREVIOUS
      provider: my-prometheus
      deviation: HIGH
      interval: 5m
      query: sum (rate(http_requests_total{status=~"5.*"}[5m])) / sum (rate(http_requests_total[5m]))
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab lang="yaml" header="Using CANARY_BASELINE strategy" >}}

> # Deploy Lambda function by a Zip packing source code stored in S3.

Reviewer: This note is not match the sample snipet

Author: Nice catch!
Fixed it!

- name: ANALYSIS
  with:
    duration: 30m
    metrics:
    - strategy: CANARY_BASELINE
      provider: my-prometheus
      deviation: HIGH
      interval: 5m
      query: sum (rate(http_requests_total{job="foo-{{ .Variant.Name }}", status=~"5.*"}[5m])) / sum (rate(http_requests_total{job="foo-{{ .Variant.Name }}"}[5m]))
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab lang="yaml" header="Using THRESHOLD strategy" >}}

> # Deploy Lambda function by using a container image.

Reviewer: This note is not match with the sample snipet

- name: ANALYSIS
  with:
    duration: 30m
    metrics:
    - strategy: THRESHOLD
      provider: my-prometheus
      interval: 5m
      expected:

>       max: 0.01

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        max: 0.01
```

Author: Nice catch!
Fixed it.

      query: sum (rate(http_requests_total{status=~"5.*"}[5m])) / sum (rate(http_requests_total[5m]))
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabpane >}}

Check out its [documentation](/docs/user-guide/automated-deployment-analysis/#strategies) for more details.

##### Notification

Any PipeCD event (deployment triggered, planned, analysis completed...) can be configured to send to external services like Slack or a Webhook service. While forwarding those events to a chat service helps developers have a quick and convenient way to know the deployment’s current status, forwarding to a Webhook service may be useful for triggering other related tasks.

> Until now, only Slack has been supported. From `v0.21.0` you can configure your Pipeds to send its events to external services via Webhook. See [here](http://localhost:1313/docs/operator-manual/piped/configuring-notifications/#sending-notifications-to-external-services-via-webhook) to know how to configure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Until now, only Slack has been supported. From `v0.21.0` you can configure your Pipeds to send its events to external services via Webhook. See [here](/docs/operator-manual/piped/configuring-notifications/#sending-notifications-to-external-services-via-webhook) to know how to configure.
```

Besides that, events sent to Slack can be configured to mention one or multiple Slack users. It would be helpful to prevent developers from missing important events.

``` yaml
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: KubernetesApp
spec:
  pipeline:
    stages:
      - name: K8S_CANARY_ROLLOUT
      - name: WAIT_APPROVAL
      - name: K8S_PRIMARY_ROLLOUT
      - name: K8S_CANARY_CLEAN
  notification:
    mentions:
      - event: DEPLOYMENT_WAIT_APPROVAL
        slack:
          - slack-user-id-1
          - slack-user-id-2
      - event: "*"                      # Specifying "*" means mentioning the given users for all events.
        slack:
          - slack-user-id-3
```

##### Piped Operation

> As you know, PipeCD is designed with `control-plane` and `agent` model (see [component architecture diagram](/docs/overview/)). Piped is a single binary agent you run in your cluster, your local network to handle the deployment tasks related to that cluster. It can be run as a Pod inside a Kubernetes cluster, as a process in a virtual machine or even on your local machine. Piped is stateless so that it can be restarted without worrying about data loss. That helps the product team reduce the cost of maintaining their Pipeds. You can see these [installation guides](https://pipecd.dev/docs/operator-manual/piped/installation/) to know how to install Piped on each environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you know, PipeCD is designed with `control-plane` and `agent` model (see [component architecture diagram](/docs/overview/)). Piped is a single binary agent you run in your cluster, your local network to handle the deployment tasks related to that cluster. It can be run as a Pod inside a Kubernetes cluster, as a process in a virtual machine, or even on your local machine. Piped is stateless so that it can be restarted without worrying about data loss. That helps the product team reduce the cost of maintaining their Pipeds. You can see those [installation guides](https://pipecd.dev/docs/operator-manual/piped/installation/) to know how to install Piped on each environment.
```
nits

![](/images/settings-remote-upgrade.png)
<p style="text-align: center;">
Select a list of Pipeds to upgrade from Settings page
</p>

#### Talks
---

Two members from PipeCD team did talk about PipeCD at some local events in Japan.

- 2021/10/08 - Introducing PipeCD as a unified CD system for both infrastructure and application

    _Cloud Native Developers JP, by [@nghialv](https://twitter.com/nghialv2607) (Youtube [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hobyQUD2Z8c) in Japanese)_

- 2021/10/29 - How to deploy AWS application with GitOps style by PipeCD

    _JAWS-UG コンテナ支部, by [@khanhtc](https://twitter.com/khanhtc1202) (Youtube [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CQ_XppWnLyg) in Japanese)_

#### What are next
---

The team continues actively working on improving PipeCD product. Besides fixing the reported issues, enhancing the existing features, here are some new features the team is currently working on:

- Deployment Chain - Allow rolling out to multiple clusters gradually or promoting across environments

> - Resource Tagging - A better way to group and filter resouces such as application, deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Resource Tagging - A better way to group and filter PipeCD resources such as applications, deployments
```

> If you have any feature want to request or found a problem, please let us know by creating an issue in the [pipe-cd/pipe](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipe/issues) repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have any features want to request or find out a problem, please let us know by creating issues to the [pipe-cd/pipe](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipe/issues) repository.
```
nits
